we write history to make it clean and that tells a story

golden rules of rewriting history:
dont rewrite public history, people have to pull and then merge and then push which will create a non linear history which is not really good muehehehehhe

no order of things, dependent things first and then independent things etc. are examples of bad history

if we have already pushed a commit, we can do git revert HEAD and if it is local, we can do git reset --hard HEAD~1

reset just moves head pointer while revert cancel out changes of older commits... if pushed, move the head pointer first and then revert using --no-commit
git reset --hard HEAD~3
git revert --no-commit HEAD~3..
git revert --continue

if we move our head to older commit, it doesn't show newer commits in git log... to see them, we use git reflog

we can edit a commit using git commit --amend, it will amend last commit... (it shows that it edited it but in backend, it creates a new one and discards old)
we can remove a file from a commit using git reset --mixed HEAD~1 and then git clean filename and then commit again.

to amend an earlier commit, do git rebase -i commitid, add command, make changes, and then git commit --amend and then git rebase --continue, it will destroy all the old nodes and create new ones because of linkedlist logic

u can drop and old commit using same way, instead there will be drop command... if merge conflict occurs, fix it using git mergetool

if u wanna change commit message, use reword command in interactive mode

if u wanna reorder commits, just move lines in rebase interactive mode

if u wanna squash 2 or more commits in a single commit, use squash command... they should be next to each other, if they are not, reorder them first

if u wanna split a commit, start with interactive rebase, use edit command on the commit u wanna split... do git reset --mixed HEAD^, make changes (if u want) and commit, make another commit and then continue rebase.

its all easy shit using git kraken
